>> Ifill: EXPLOSIONS ROCKED THE
FINISH LINE OF THE BOSTON
MARATHON, TURNING THE FESTIVE
G.ENE INTO ONE OF CARNAGE AND
I'M GWEN IFILL.
TACKLES SCIENCE, RESEARCH AND
GENETICS IN A CASE THAT COULD
DETERMINE WHO CONTROLS YOUR
MEDICAL CARE.
MARCIA COYLE RECAPS TODAY'S
COURT ARGUMENTS AS THE LEGAL
WORLD ASKS, CAN A GENE BE
PATENTED.
>> Brown: WE GET AN UPDATE ON
THE SENATE'S MOVE TOWARD
BIPARTISAN IMMIGRATION REFORM
WITH REPUBLICAN SENATOR MARCO
RUBIO LEADING THE CHARGE THIS
WEEKEND.
>> Ifill: RAY SUAREZ LOOKS AT
VENEZUELA'S CONTENTIOUS
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION AS THE
OPPONENT ASKS FOR A RECOUNT.
THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON TONIGHT'S
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: 27 RUNNERS AND
THOUSANDS MORE SPECTATORS HAD
TURNED OUT FOR THE BOSTON
MARATHON TODAY WHEN TERROR
ERUPTED.
TWO BOMBS EXPLODED, AND
AUTHORITIES SAID TWO PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND MORE THAN 50 OTHERS
WERE WOUNDED.
(SIRENS).
WITHIN MINUTES OF THE BLAST,
WHEELCHAIRS AND STRETCHERS WERE
FERRYING VICTIMS UP AND DOWN
BOYLSTON STREET, THE HOME
STRETCH OF THE OLDEST MARATHON
RACE IN THE WORLD.
AMID THE CHAOS COMPETITORS, RACE
VOLUNTEERS AND SPECTATORS RAN
FROM THE SCENE IN SHOCK.
>> I WENT OVER THERE.
THERE WERE BODY PARTS.
PEOPLE WERE BLOWN APART.
THEY'RE DEAD.
WHERE THE WIND OWE IS, THE
WINDOWS WERE ALL BLOWN OUT.
>> Ifill: THE ATTACK CAME ABOUT
THREE HOURS AFTER THE WINNERS
HAD CROSSED THE FINISH LINE.
A LOUD EXPLOSION ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE STREET WENT OFF
FIRST FOLLOWED BY A SECOND BLAST
A F LATER.
A NUMBER OF PEOPLE WERE BLOODIED
AND HAD WOUNDED ARMS AND LEGS.
>> THEY SAID PUT HIM IN A
WHEELCHAIR.
WE COULDN'T.
NO WAY.
HE WAS GETTING REALLY COLD.
WE WERE TRYING TO KEEP TALKING
TO HIM AND KEEP HIM ALERT AS
WELL AS THE OTHER PEOPLE LAYING
THERE.
WE WHEELED HIM, YOU KNOW, ON THE
BOARD, WALKED HIM IN THE
STRETCHER, MET HIM HALFWAY AND
TOOK HIM IN THE AMBULANCE.
>> Ifill: A NEWSHOUR PRODUCTION
ASSISTANT WAS A FEW BLOCKS AWAY
AT THE TIME.
>> I SAW TWO CLOUDS OF SMOKE GO
UP AND HEARD THEM, YOU KNOW,
JUST A MATTER OF SECONDS IN
BETWEEN THE TWO EXPLOSIONS.
THERE WAS SOMETHING CONFUSING,
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE IMMEDIATELY
LOOKED IN THAT DIRECTION AND
STARTED TAKING PHOTOS.
THERE WAS A BIT OF A CONFUSION.
>> Ifill: THERE WERE SEVERAL
THOUSAND RUNNERS STILL ON THE
COURSE ATHET  TIME.
MARATHON ORGANIZERS SENT BUSES
TO PICK THEM UP.
MEANWHILE, POLICE SAID THE
MOTIVE FOR THE BOMBINGS REMAINED
UNCLEAR.
THEY ALSO REPORTED A THIRD
EXPLOSION AT THE JOHN F. KENNEDY
LIBRARY BUT IT MAY NOT BE
RELATED.
>> WE HAVE AT THIS POINT IN TIME
DETERMINED THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
THIRD INCIDENT THAT HAS
OCCURRED.
THERE WAS AN EXPLOSION THAT
OCCURRED AT THE J.F.K. LIBRARY.
SO THIS IS VERY MUCH AN ONGOING
EVENT AT THIS POINT IN TIME.
WE ARE NOT CERTAIN THAT THESE
INCIDENTS ARE RELATED, BUT WE
ARE TREATING THEM AS IF THEY
ARE.
WE'RE RECOMMENDING TO PEOPLE
THAT THEY SAY HOME, THAT IF
THEY'RE IN HOTELS IN THE AREA
THAT THEY RETURN TO THEIR ROOMS
AND THAT THEY DON'T GO ANY PLACE
AND CONGREGATE IN LARGE CROWDS.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE
COMPLETELY STABILIZE THE
SITUATION.
>> Ifill: IN THE WAKE OF THE
ATTACK POLICE IN LONDON,
WASHINGTON, AND NEW YORK STEPPED
UP SECURITY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS NOTIFIED.
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS SAID HE
OFFERED WHATEVER ASSISTANCE IS
NEEDED IN THE RESPONSE OF THE
ENSUING INVESTIGATION.
FOR MORE WE TURN TO SCOTT MALONE
OF REUTERS WHO WAS ON THE SCENE
IN BOSTON.
I SPOKE WITH HIM A FEW MINUTES
AGO.
SCOTT MALONE OF REUTERS, THANK
YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
WHAT IS THE BEST, MOST RECENT
INFORMATION WE HAVE ON WHAT
HAPPENED TODAY?
>> WELL, WHAT WE'RE HEARING FROM
BOSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT AT THIS
POINT IN TIME CONFIRMED IS TWO
O
GETTING UNCONFIRMED REPORTS THAT
BOSTON HOSPITALS HAVE ADMITTED
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE PEOPLE THAN
THAT.
RIGHT NOW THEY SAY THERE WERE
TWO DEVICES THAT WENT OFF AT THE
FINISH LINE OF THE MARATHON.
THERE IS A THIRD INCIDENT.
IT'S NOT CLEAR YET IF IT WAS
RELATED WHICH HAPPENED AT THE
JOHN F. KENNEDY LIBRARY THAT'S
LOCATED ABOUT THREE MILES AWAY
FROM THE MARATHON SITE.
>> Ifill: SCOTT, WHERE WERE YOU
WHEN THIS HAPPENED?
>> I WAS IN THE PRESS ROOM AT
THE HOTEL WHICH IS KIND OF THE
STAGING AREA FOR THE MARATHON.
WE HEARD TWO BLASTS.
ONE WAS RELATIVELY LOUD.
THE OTHER ONE WAS SOMEWHAT
SOFTER.
AT FIRST DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO
MAKE OF THEM.
THEN VERY QUICKLY IT BECAME
CLEAR WHAT HAD HAPPENED.
>> Ifill: THE POLICE
COMMISSIONER SAID THAT THERE WAS
ALSO AT LEAST ONE CONTROL DEBT
NATION THAT HAPPENED AFTER THE
FIRST TWO EXPLOSIONS.
WHAT WAS THAT FOR?
>> WE DON'T KNOW.
THEY'RE NOT GIVING A LOT OF
INFORMATION OUT ON THAT.
THE ONE POINT THAT THEY DID MAKE
IS ONCE THE BLAST STARTED,
PEOPLE TRIED TO ESCAPE QUICKLY
AS YOU WOULD IMAGINE THEY WOULD
IN SUCH A SITUATION.
AND MANY PEOPLE WHO MIGHT HAVE
BEEN CARRYING A BACKPACK OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT JUST DECIDED
THEM DIDN'T NEED THAT EXTRA
WEIGHT AS THEY GOT OUT OF THERE.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF LUGGAGE AND
ARTICLES THAT HAD BEEN LEFT
AROUND AND THE POLICE ARE
TREATING ALL OF THEM AS
SUSPICIOUS DEVICES UNTIL PROVEN
OTHERWISE.
>> Ifill: HAVE THE POLICE SAID
ANYTHING ABOUT HOW THEY'RE
GATHERING INFORMATION,
VIDEOTAPE, ANY EYEWITNESS THAT
MAY HAVE SEEN SOMEONE PLANTING
ANY OF THESE DEVICES?
>> THEY HAVEN'T OFFERED A LOT ON
THAT.
I MEAN, THIS IS A PUBLIC PLACE.
THERE WERE TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE PROBABLY, YOU KNOW,
PASSING THROUGH THE AREA THROUGH
THE COURSE OF THE DAY.
SO IT'S JUST A TREMENDOUS NUMBER
OF PEOPLE WHO, YOU KNOW, COULD
HAVE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO SEE
SOMETHING.
>> Ifill: IN THE IMMEDIATE AFTER
MATH OF THE EXPLOSIONS, DID
PEOPLE JUST... DID PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND WHAT WAS HAPPENING?
DID THEY SCATTER?
WAS IT CHAOTIC OR PEOPLE JUST
CALMLY FILE AWAY?
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
>> THEY GOT OUT OF THERE, YOU
KNOW, FAIRLY, FAIRLY QUICKLY.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU HAVE
THE FIRST BLAST, IT'S A LITTLE
BIT, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE DON'T
NECESSARILY KNOW WHAT HAD
HAPPENED BUT WHEN YOU GOT TWO IN
FAIRLY QUICK SUCCESSION, THAT IS
A VERY DIFFERENT MATTER, I
THINK, FOR THE AVERAGE PERSON.
WE SAW PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, MANY
PEOPLE INJURED.
WE SAW PEOPLE RUNNING, YOU KNOW,
RUNNING FROM THE SCENE.
YEAH.
>> Ifill: WHERE DID ALL THE
RUNNERS GO?
>> THEY'VE JUST DISPERSED INTO
THE AREA.
TYPICALLY AT THE END OF THE RACE
THERE ARE BUSES THAT BRING THEIR
CLOTHING TO THE FINISH LINE.
THOSE ARE ALL LOCKED DOWN AND
BEING SECURED SO THEY'RE BEING
CHECKED.
RUNNERS ARE JUST LEFT KIND OF TO
MAKE THEIR WAY SOME PLACE WARM.
>> Ifill: IF YOU WERE A RELATIVE
OR A LOVED ONE OR SOMEONE WHO IS
JUST A SPECTATOR AT THE RACE,
HOW DID YOU GO ABOUT FINDING THE
PERSON, THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
RUNNING?
WAS THERE A LOCAL PLACE WHERE
THEY WERE ALL DIRECTED, WHERE
YOU COULD FIND EACH OTHER?
>> EARLY ON I BELIEVE THAT SOME
PEOPLE WERE... THE RACE
OFFICIALS SAID THEY WERE
CONTINUING TO DIRECT RUNNERS TO
THE FAMILY REUNION AREA, A
DIFFERENT ROUTE FROM THE RACE
ROUTE.
SOME PEOPLE MAY HAVE DONE THAT.
OTHERS MAY HAVE SIMPLY TRIED TO
RETURN TO THEIR HOMES.
>> Ifill: FINALLY, SCOTT, DO WE
KNOW ANYTHING TONIGHT ABOUT A
SUSPECT OR A MOTIVE OR ANY OTHER
EXPLANATION FOR WHAT WE SAW
HAPPEN TODAY?
>> NO.
WE'VE HEARD NOTHING FROM FROM
THE POLICE ON ANY OF THOSE
MATTERS YET.
>> Ifill: SCOTT MALONE OF
REUTERS, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
GOOD NIGHT.
>> Brown: WE'LL HAVE MORE ON
THIS STILL DEVELOPING STORY
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
GENETIC RESEARCH AND THE LAW;
THE SENATE TACKLES IMMIGRATION
REFORM; AND VENEZUELA ELECTS A
NEW PRESIDENT.
BUTIRST F, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: AT LEAST 55
PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN IRAQ TODAY
IN A STRING OF COORDINATED
BOMBINGS AND OTHER ATTACKS.
SCORES OF OTHERS WERE WOUNDED.
EXPLOSIONS RANG OUT FROM BAGHDAD
AND FALLUJAH TO KIRKUK AND
TIKRIT.
THE FORCE OF THE BLASTS REDUCED
CITY BLOCKS TO RUBBLE, CAUSED
CHAOS IN THE STREETS AND LEFT
BYSTANDERS BEWILDERED.
>> WHAT HAVE THOSE INNOCENT
PEOPLE DONE TO DESERVE THIS?
LIVES OF INNOCENT PEOPLE DON'T
MEAN ANYTHING?
WE ARE ONLY ASKING FOR SECURITY
AND SAFETY.
IS THIS SAFE?
NO ELECTRICITY, NO CARS, THEY
ARE TARGETING EVERYTHING, EVEN
PEOPLE.
EVERYTHING IS TARGETED.
WHY?
WHY ARE THEY DOING THAT?
>> Sreenivasan: THE VIOLENCE
CAME LESS THAN A WEEK BEFORE
IRAQIS HOLD LOCAL ELECTIONS,
THEIR FIRST VOTE SINCE U.S.
TROOPS WITHDREW IN 2011.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE CLAIM OF
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT SUCH ATTACKS
ARE OFTEN A TRADEMARK OF AL-
QAEDA'S IRAQI WING.
A MAJOR SELL-OFF HIT WALL STREET
TODAY.
STOCKS PLUNGED AFTER CHINA
REPORTED ITS ECONOMIC GROWTH
SLOWED IN THE FIRST QUARTER, AND
COMMODITY PRICES TOOK A HIT.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 266 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 14,599.
THE NASDAQ FELL 78 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3216.
THERE WAS RELATIVE QUIET OUT OF
NORTH KOREA TODAY, AS THE
COMMUNIST STATE CELEBRATED THE
BIRTHDAY OF ITS FOUNDER WITH A
FLOWER FESTIVAL.
CELEBRATIONS WERE FOCUSED IN
PYONGYANG, AND RESIDENTS DRESSED
IN THEIR FINEST CLOTHING TO LAY
FLOWERS BEFORE STATUES OF FORMER
NORTH KOREAN LEADERS.
A DAY EARLIER, NORTH KOREA
REJECTED THE SOUTH'S OFFER OF
DIALOGUE, CALLING IT A "CRAFTY
TRICK."
A FEDERAL JUDGE IN WASHINGTON
HAS REFUSED TO INTERVENE IN A
DETAINEE HUNGER STRIKE AT
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
HE RULED TODAY THAT FEDERAL LAW
BARS JUDICIAL REVIEW OF ENEMY
COMBATANT CLAIMS OF
MISTREATMENT.
A YEMENI PRISONER, MUSAAB AL-
MADHWANI, HAD SAID HE AND OTHER
HUNGER STRIKERS ARE DENIED
DRINKING WATER AND MEDICAL CARE
AND KEPT IN EXTREME COLD.
IN ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT, SOME OF
THE 166 DETAINEES FOUGHT WITH
MILITARY GUARDS ON SATURDAY OVER
BEING MOVED TO NEW CELLS.
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" WON FOUR
PULITZER PRIZES TODAY, AS THE
2013 AWARDS WERE ANNOUNCED.
AMONG THE "TIMES"' HONORS: THE
PRIZE FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING ON ALLEGATIONS THAT
WAL-MART BRIBED OFFICIALS IN
MEXICO.
THE "DENVER POST" WON FOR
"BREAKING NEWS" REPORTING ON THE
MASS KILLING OF 12 PEOPLE AT A
MOVIE THEATER.
IN THE ARTS, ADAM JOHNSON WON
THE FICTION PRIZE FOR "THE
ORPHAN MASTER'S SON."
AND THE POETRY PRIZE WENT TO
SHARON OLDS FOR "STAG'LEAPS ."
WE'LL HAVE AN ENCORE
PRESENTATION OF A PROFILE OF
SHARON OLDS, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: BACK TO THE BOSTON
BOMBING STORY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WENT TO WHITE
HOUSE BRIEFING ROOM THIS EVENING
TO MAKE A STATEMENT ON
DEVELOPMENTS.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON, EVERYBODY.
EARLIER TODAY I WAS BRIEFED BY
MY HOMELAND SECURITY TEAM ON THE
EVENTS IN BOSTON.
WE'RE CONTINUING TO MONITOR AND
RESPOND TO THE SITUATION AS IT
UNFOLDS.
I'VE DIRECTED THE FULL RESOURCES
OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
HELP STATE AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES
PROTECT OUR PEOPLE, INCREASE
SECURITY AROUND THE UNITED
STATES AS NECESSARY, AND
INVESTIGATE WHAT HAPPENED.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL SAY A
PRAYER FOR BOSTON TONIGHT, AND
MICHELLE AND I SEND OUR DEEPEST
THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS TO FAMILIES
OF THE VICTIMS IN THE WAKE OF
THIS SENSELESS LOSS.
WE DON'T YET HAVE ALL THE
ANSWERS.
BUT WE DO KNOW THAT MULTIPLE
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN WOUNDED.
SOME GRAVELY IN EXPLOSIONS AT
THE BOSTON MARATHON.
I'VE SPOKEN TO F.B.I. DIRECTOR
MUELLER AND SECRETARY OF
HOMELAND SECURITY NAPOLITANO.
THEY'RE MOBILIZING THE
APPROPRIATE RESOURCES TO
INVESTIGATE AND TO RESPOND.
I'VE UPDATED LEADERS OF CONGRESS
IN BOTH PARTIES AND WE REAFFIRM
THAT ON DAYS LIKE THIS THERE ARE
NO REPUBLICANS OR DEMOCRATS.
WE ARE AMERICANS, UNITED IN
CONCERN FOR OUR FELLOW CITIZENS.
I'VE ALSO SPOKEN WITH GOVERNOR
PATRICK AND MAYOR MENINO AND
MADE IT CLEAR THAT THEY HAVE
EVERY SINGLE FEDERAL RESOURCE
NECESSARY TO CARE FOR THE
VICTIMS AND COUNSEL THE
FAMILIES.
ABOVE ALL, I MADE CLEAR TO THEM
THAT ALL AMERICANS STAND WITH
THE PEOPLE OF BOSTON.
BOSTON POLICE, FIREFIGHTERS, AND
FIRST RESPONDERS AS WELL AS THE
NATIONAL GUARD RESPONDED
HEROICALLY AND CONTINUE TO DO SO
AS WE SPEAK.
JUST A REMINDER THAT SO MANY
AMERICANS SERVE AND SACRIFICE ON
OUR BEHALF EVERY SINGLE DAY
WITHOUT REGARD TO THEIR OWN
SAFETY IN DANGEROUS AND
DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES.
AND WE SALUTE ALL THOSE WHO
ASSISTED IN RESPONDING SO
QUICKLY AND PROFESSIONALLY TO
THIS TRAGEDY.
WE STILL DO NOT KNOW WHO DID
THIS OR WHY.
AND PEOPLE SHOULDN'T JUMP TO
CONCLUSIONS BEFORE WE HAVE ALL
THE FACTS.
BUT MAKE NO MISTAKE, WE WILL GET
TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS.
AND WE WILL FIND OUT WHO DID
THIS.
WE'LL FIND OUT WHY THEY DID
ANY RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS, ANY
THIS.
RESPONSIBLE GROUPS WILL FEEL THE
ANY RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS, ANY
FULL WEIGHT OF JUSTICE.
RESPONSIBLE GROUPS WILL FEEL THE
TODAY IS A HOLIDAY IN
FULL WEIGHT OF JUSTICE.
MASSACHUSETTS.
TODAY IS A HOLIDAY IN
PATRIOTS' DAY.
MASSACHUSETTS.
IT'S A DAY THAT CELEBRATES THE
PATRIOTS' DAY.
FREE AND FIERCELY INDEPENDENT
IT'S A DAY THAT CELEBRATES THE
SPIRIT THAT THIS GREAT AMERICAN
FREE AND FIERCELY INDEPENDENT
CITY OF BOSTON HAS REFLECTED
SPIRIT THAT THIS GREAT AMERICAN
FROM THE EARLIEST DAYS OF OUR
CITY OF BOSTON HAS REFLECTED
NATION.
FROM THE EARLIEST DAYS OF OUR
IT'S A DAY THAT DRAWS THE WORLD
NATION.
TO BOSTON STREETS IN A SPIRIT OF
IT'S A DAY THAT DRAWS THE WORLD
FRIENDLY COMPETITION.
TO BOSTON STREETS IN A SPIRIT OF
BOSTON IS A TOUGH AND RESILIENT
FRIENDLY COMPETITION.
TOWN.
BOSTON IS A TOUGH AND RESILIENT
SO ARE ITS PEOPLE.
TOWN.
I'M SUPREMELY CONFIDENT THAT
SO ARE ITS PEOPLE.
BOSTONNIANS WILL PULL TOGETHER,
I'M SUPREMELY CONFIDENT THAT
TAKE CARE OF EACH OTHER AND MOVE
BOSTONNIANS WILL PULL TOGETHER,
FORWARD AS ONE PROUD CITY.
TAKE CARE OF EACH OTHER AND MOVE
AND AS THEY DO, THE AMERICAN
FORWARD AS ONE PROUD CITY.
PEOPLE WILL BE WITH THEM EVERY
AND AS THEY DO, THE AMERICAN
SINGLE STEP OF THE WAY.
PEOPLE WILL BE WITH THEM EVERY
YOU SHOULD ANTICIPATE THAT AS WE
SINGLE STEP OF THE WAY.
GET MORE INFORMATION, OUR TEAMS
YOU SHOULD ANTICIPATE THAT AS WE
WILL PROVIDE YOU BRIEFINGS.
GET MORE INFORMATION, OUR TEAMS
WE'RE STILL IN THE INVESTIGATION
WILL PROVIDE YOU BRIEFINGS.
STAGE AT THIS POINT, BUT I JUST
WE'RE STILL IN THE INVESTIGATION
WANT TO REITERATE WE WILL FIND
STAGE AT THIS POINT, BUT I JUST
OUT WHO DID THIS AND WE WILL
WANT TO REITERATE WE WILL FIND
HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE.
OUT WHO DID THIS AND WE WILL
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA IN THE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WHITE HOUSE BRIEFING ROOM A
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA IN THE
SHORT TIME AGO.
WHITE HOUSE BRIEFING ROOM A
NOW WE GET ANOTHER EYEWITNESS
SHORT TIME AGO.
ACCOUNT FROM THE PRESIDENT OF
NOW WE GET ANOTHER EYEWITNESS
THE BOSTON CITY COUNCIL, STEERCH
ACCOUNT FROM THE PRESIDENT OF
MURPHY WAS NEAR THE FINISH LINE
THE BOSTON CITY COUNCIL, STEERCH
THIS ARCH.
MURPHY WAS NEAR THE FINISH LINE
HE JOINS US NOW ON THE PHONE.
THIS ARCH.
COUNCILMAN MURPHY, TELL ME WHAT
HE JOINS US NOW ON THE PHONE.
YOU SAW.
COUNCILMAN MURPHY, TELL ME WHAT
>> WELL I WAS ABOUT 30 FEET FROM
YOU SAW.
THE CORNER OF BOYLSTON AND
>> WELL I WAS ABOUT 30 FEET FROM
EXETER STREETS WHEN A LOUD
THE CORNER OF BOYLSTON AND
EXPLOSION WENT OFF.
EXETER STREETS WHEN A LOUD
IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A MUSHROOM
EXPLOSION WENT OFF.
CLOUD WENT UP INTO THE AIR.
IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A MUSHROOM
AND PEOPLE STARTED RUNNING AND
CLOUD WENT UP INTO THE AIR.
SCREAMING.
AND PEOPLE STARTED RUNNING AND
IT WAS VERY QUICK, QUICKLY THAT
SCREAMING.
THE BOSTON POLICE, BOSTON
IT WAS VERY QUICK, QUICKLY THAT
E.M.S., AND BOSTON FIRE AS WELL
THE BOSTON POLICE, BOSTON
AS VOLUNTEERS FROM THE BOSTON
E.M.S., AND BOSTON FIRE AS WELL
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION, THE B.A.A.
AS VOLUNTEERS FROM THE BOSTON
THAT RUNS THE RACE, MOVED RIGHT
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION, THE B.A.A.
IN AND CLEARED THE AREA AND
THAT RUNS THE RACE, MOVED RIGHT
BEGAN TO RESTORE ORDER RIGHT
IN AND CLEARED THE AREA AND
AWAY.
BEGAN TO RESTORE ORDER RIGHT
IT WAS A VERY GOOD TEAM EFFORT
AWAY.
ON BEHALF OF THOSE WHO WERE
IT WAS A VERY GOOD TEAM EFFORT
REPRESENTING OFFICIALS OF THE
ON BEHALF OF THOSE WHO WERE
CITY, THE OFFICIAL POLICE, FIRE
REPRESENTING OFFICIALS OF THE
AND AMBULANCE.
CITY, THE OFFICIAL POLICE, FIRE
AND ALSO THE B.A.A. VOLUNTEERS,
AND AMBULANCE.
THE RACE VOLUNTEERS.
AND ALSO THE B.A.A. VOLUNTEERS,
THEY WORKED SWIFTLY TO MOVE IN
THE RACE VOLUNTEERS.
TO THE AREA AND TO BRING BOSTON
THEY WORKED SWIFTLY TO MOVE IN
E.M.S. GOT THEIR AMBULANCE FOLKS
TO THE AREA AND TO BRING BOSTON
OVER AND TO TRY TO TAKE CARE OF
E.M.S. GOT THEIR AMBULANCE FOLKS
INJURIES.
OVER AND TO TRY TO TAKE CARE OF
THEY MOVED VERY, VERY QUICKLY.
INJURIES.
A BOSTONNIAN... PROUD AS A
THEY MOVED VERY, VERY QUICKLY.
BOSTONNIAN TO WATCH OUR
A BOSTONNIAN... PROUD AS A
EMERGENCY SERVICES PEOPLE WORK
BOSTONNIAN TO WATCH OUR
SO WELL.
EMERGENCY SERVICES PEOPLE WORK
>> Ifill: WHEN THAT FIRST BLAST
SO WELL.
WENT OFF DID YOU IMMEDIATELY
>> Ifill: WHEN THAT FIRST BLAST
THINK IT WAS A BOMB OR DID YOU
WENT OFF DID YOU IMMEDIATELY
THINK IT WAS A MANHOLE COVER
THINK IT WAS A BOMB OR DID YOU
EXPLODING?
THINK IT WAS A MANHOLE COVER
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS A MANHOLE
EXPLODING?
COVER.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS A MANHOLE
WE'VE HAD A FEW OF THOSE USUALLY
COVER.
IN COLDER WEATHER THAN THIS.
WE'VE HAD A FEW OF THOSE USUALLY
THE FIRST TIME I THOUGHT IT WAS
IN COLDER WEATHER THAN THIS.
A MANHOLE COVER, BUT THE SIZE OF
THE FIRST TIME I THOUGHT IT WAS
THE FIRE BALL AND THE CLOUD GAVE
A MANHOLE COVER, BUT THE SIZE OF
US PAUSE.
THE FIRE BALL AND THE CLOUD GAVE
THEN ANOTHER ONE HAPPENED MAYBE
US PAUSE.
15, 20 SECONDS LATER PROBABLY
THEN ANOTHER ONE HAPPENED MAYBE
100 YARDS FURTHER DOWN BOYLSTON
15, 20 SECONDS LATER PROBABLY
STREET.
100 YARDS FURTHER DOWN BOYLSTON
THAT'S WHEN EVERYBODY KNEW THAT
STREET.
IT WAS SOMETHING MORE THAN JUST
THAT'S WHEN EVERYBODY KNEW THAT
A RANDOM INCIDENT.
IT WAS SOMETHING MORE THAN JUST
SO PEOPLED FROM
A RANDOM INCIDENT.
THE AREA QUICKLY.
SO PEOPLED FROM
MEDICAL PEOPLE WERE RESPONDING
THE AREA QUICKLY.
JUST AS QUICKLY TO THOSE THAT
MEDICAL PEOPLE WERE RESPONDING
WERE INJURED AND HURT.
JUST AS QUICKLY TO THOSE THAT
>> Ifill: AS PRESIDENT OF THE
WERE INJURED AND HURT.
BOSTON CITY COUNCIL HAVE YOU
>> Ifill: AS PRESIDENT OF THE
BEEN INFORMED ABOUT WHAT THAT
BOSTON CITY COUNCIL HAVE YOU
"SOMETHING MORE" MIGHT BE?
BEEN INFORMED ABOUT WHAT THAT
>> I HAVE NOT.
"SOMETHING MORE" MIGHT BE?
I MEAN, I TALKED TO OUR POLICE
>> I HAVE NOT.
COMMISSIONER, AND I KNOW THAT
I MEAN, I TALKED TO OUR POLICE
THE GOVERNOR AND HIS FOLKS...
COMMISSIONER, AND I KNOW THAT
EVERYBODY IS WORKING AS A TEAM.
THE GOVERNOR AND HIS FOLKS...
THE STATE AND LOCAL OFFICIALS.
EVERYBODY IS WORKING AS A TEAM.
THEY'VE BEEN... THE BOSTON
THE STATE AND LOCAL OFFICIALS.
REGIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER,
THEY'VE BEEN... THE BOSTON
WHICH IS JUST A FEW YEARS OLD IS
REGIONAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER,
WORKING RIGHT NOW TO TRY TO
WHICH IS JUST A FEW YEARS OLD IS
COORDINATE EFFORTS OF ALL LAW
WORKING RIGHT NOW TO TRY TO
ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
COORDINATE EFFORTS OF ALL LAW
PERSONNEL IN THE AREA.
ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
>> Ifill: COUNSELOR MURPHY, AS
PERSONNEL IN THE AREA.
YOU WELL KNOW, PATRIOTS DAY IS A
>> Ifill: COUNSELOR MURPHY, AS
BIG HOLIDAY IN BOSTON.
YOU WELL KNOW, PATRIOTS DAY IS A
AND THE BOSTON MARATHON IS A BIG
BIG HOLIDAY IN BOSTON.
MOMENT.
AND THE BOSTON MARATHON IS A BIG
27,000 PEOPLE RUNNING DOWN THE
MOMENT.
STREETS.
27,000 PEOPLE RUNNING DOWN THE
HOW OFF-PUTTING, HOW UPSETTING,
STREETS.
HOW MUCH WAS IT A BLOW TO YOU
HOW OFF-PUTTING, HOW UPSETTING,
STANDING THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF
HOW MUCH WAS IT A BLOW TO YOU
THIS ON THIS KIND OF DAY?
STANDING THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF
>> IT WAS AN ATTACK ON FREEDOM
THIS ON THIS KIND OF DAY?
ITSELF AGAIN.
>> IT WAS AN ATTACK ON FREEDOM
BY WHOEVER DID IT.
ITSELF AGAIN.
THEY'RE TRYING TO... THERE'S THE
BY WHOEVER DID IT.
PSYCHOLOGICAL COMPONENT TO IT.
THEY'RE TRYING TO... THERE'S THE
I KNOW THAT EVERYBODY HAS BEEN
PSYCHOLOGICAL COMPONENT TO IT.
PSYCHOLOGICALLY SCARRED BY IT
I KNOW THAT EVERYBODY HAS BEEN
THAT WAS PART OF IT.
PSYCHOLOGICALLY SCARRED BY IT
I WAS JUST ONE OF A BUNCH OF
THAT WAS PART OF IT.
PEOPLE THAT WERE WITHIN 30, 50
I WAS JUST ONE OF A BUNCH OF
FEET OF THE EXPLOSION.
PEOPLE THAT WERE WITHIN 30, 50
YOU KNOW, IT'S OFF-PUTTING.
FEET OF THE EXPLOSION.
IT IS.
YOU KNOW, IT'S OFF-PUTTING.
BUT I'M VERY HAPPY AT THE WAY
IT IS.
OUR RESPONSE PEOPLE RESPONDED.
BUT I'M VERY HAPPY AT THE WAY
THEY DID A TREMENDOUS JOB.
OUR RESPONSE PEOPLE RESPONDED.
THERE'S SOME SOLACE IN THAT.
THEY DID A TREMENDOUS JOB.
>> Ifill: DID YOU WITNESS ANY
THERE'S SOME SOLACE IN THAT.
ACTUAL CARNAGE NEARBY YOU?
>> Ifill: DID YOU WITNESS ANY
WAS THERE BLOOD NEARBY YOU OR
ACTUAL CARNAGE NEARBY YOU?
WAS THIS SOMETHING THAT SEEMED
WAS THERE BLOOD NEARBY YOU OR
TO HAPPEN AT A DISTANCE?
WAS THIS SOMETHING THAT SEEMED
>> NO, I WAS A LITTLE BIT
TO HAPPEN AT A DISTANCE?
FURTHER AWAY.
>> NO, I WAS A LITTLE BIT
IT WASN'T RIGHT AT MY FEET OR
FURTHER AWAY.
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
IT WASN'T RIGHT AT MY FEET OR
BUT I DID SEE PEOPLE RUNNING BY
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
WITH CLOTHES TORN OFF AND BURN
BUT I DID SEE PEOPLE RUNNING BY
MARKS ON THEM AND BLOOD.
WITH CLOTHES TORN OFF AND BURN
THERE WAS THAT.
MARKS ON THEM AND BLOOD.
I MEAN, I DID SEE ENOUGH OF THAT
THERE WAS THAT.
RIGHT BY THE FINISH LINE.
I MEAN, I DID SEE ENOUGH OF THAT
THERE WAS A MEDIA BRIDGE RIGHT
RIGHT BY THE FINISH LINE.
THERE.
THERE WAS A MEDIA BRIDGE RIGHT
THEY WERE PHOTOGRAPHING
THERE.
EVERYBODY COMING ACROSS THE
THEY WERE PHOTOGRAPHING
FINISH LINE.
EVERYBODY COMING ACROSS THE
IT WAS RIGHT AT THE CORNER OF
FINISH LINE.
EXETER AND BOYLSTON STREET RIGHT
IT WAS RIGHT AT THE CORNER OF
BY THAT MEDIA OUTPOST WHEN IT
EXETER AND BOYLSTON STREET RIGHT
HAPPENED.
BY THAT MEDIA OUTPOST WHEN IT
>> Ifill: OUR CONCERNS GO OUT TO
HAPPENED.
YOU AND THE CITY... THE PEOPLE
>> Ifill: OUR CONCERNS GO OUT TO
OF THE CITY OF BOSTON, CITY
YOU AND THE CITY... THE PEOPLE
COUNCIL PRESIDENT STEVE MURPHY,
OF THE CITY OF BOSTON, CITY
THANK YOU FOR CALLING IN.
COUNCIL PRESIDENT STEVE MURPHY,
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE TO
THANK YOU FOR CALLING IN.
FOLLOW DEVELOPMENTS IN BOSTON
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE TO
BUT FOR NOW TO ANOTHER STORY
FOLLOW DEVELOPMENTS IN BOSTON
TODAY.
BUT FOR NOW TO ANOTHER STORY
THE SUPREME COURT HEARD
TODAY.
ARGUMENTS IN A CASE AT THE
THE SUPREME COURT HEARD
INTERSECTION OF LAW AND SCIENCE.
ARGUMENTS IN A CASE AT THE
SPECIFICALLY GENETIC RESEARCH.
INTERSECTION OF LAW AND SCIENCE.
ONE THAT MAY WELL HAVE MAJOR
SPECIFICALLY GENETIC RESEARCH.
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE FUTURE OF
ONE THAT MAY WELL HAVE MAJOR
MEDICINE.
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE FUTURE OF
THE QUESTION, "CAN HUMAN GENES
MEDICINE.
BE PATENTED?
THE QUESTION, "CAN HUMAN GENES
WE TURN TO MARCIA COYLE WHO IS
BE PATENTED?
BACK WITH US TONIGHT.
WE TURN TO MARCIA COYLE WHO IS
SHE WAS IN THE COURTROOM TODAY.
BACK WITH US TONIGHT.
MARCIA, FIRST BACKGROUND ON THIS
SHE WAS IN THE COURTROOM TODAY.
CASE.
MARCIA, FIRST BACKGROUND ON THIS
>> MYRIAD IS A UTAH-BASED
CASE.
GENETIC RESEARCH COMPANY.
>> MYRIAD IS A UTAH-BASED
AND MYRIAD HOLDS PATENTS ON TWO
GENETIC RESEARCH COMPANY.
GENES WITH MUTATIONS THAT ARE
AND MYRIAD HOLDS PATENTS ON TWO
LINKED TO A VERY HIGH RISK OF
GENES WITH MUTATIONS THAT ARE
BREAST AND/OR OVARIAN CANCER.
LINKED TO A VERY HIGH RISK OF
ITS PATENTS ALSO GIVE IT
BREAST AND/OR OVARIAN CANCER.
EXCLUSIVE CONTROL OVER
ITS PATENTS ALSO GIVE IT
DIAGNOSTIC TESTING FOR THOSE
EXCLUSIVE CONTROL OVER
GENES.
DIAGNOSTIC TESTING FOR THOSE
ABOUT FOUR YEARS AGO, A GROUP OF
GENES.
SCIENTISTS, RESEARCHERS, CIVIL
ABOUT FOUR YEARS AGO, A GROUP OF
RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS, WOMEN'S
SCIENTISTS, RESEARCHERS, CIVIL
HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS DECIDED TO
RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS, WOMEN'S
CHALLENGE MYRIAD'S PATENTS IN
HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS DECIDED TO
FEDERAL COURT.
CHALLENGE MYRIAD'S PATENTS IN
THEY FILED A LAWSUIT.
FEDERAL COURT.
THEY LOST.
THEY FILED A LAWSUIT.
TWO LOWER COURTS HAVE UPHELD
THEY LOST.
MYRIAD'S PATENTS.
TWO LOWER COURTS HAVE UPHELD
TODAY THE CHALLENGERS BROUGHT
MYRIAD'S PATENTS.
THE CASE TO THE SUPREME COURT.
TODAY THE CHALLENGERS BROUGHT
>> Brown: SO THE LEGAL ISSUE
THE CASE TO THE SUPREME COURT.
HERE IS WHAT CAN BE PATENTED.
>> Brown: SO THE LEGAL ISSUE
NOW WE MADE A GRAPHIC OF PATENT
HERE IS WHAT CAN BE PATENTED.
LAW JUST TO HELP YOU OUT HERE.
NOW WE MADE A GRAPHIC OF PATENT
WE'LL PUT THAT UP.
LAW JUST TO HELP YOU OUT HERE.
TELL US WHAT THE LAW SAYS.
WE'LL PUT THAT UP.
THEN WE CAN GO INTO THIS CASE.
TELL US WHAT THE LAW SAYS.
>> OKAY.
THEN WE CAN GO INTO THIS CASE.
THE LAW SAYS THAT YOU CAN GET A
>> OKAY.
PATENT FOR ANY NEW AND USEFUL
THE LAW SAYS THAT YOU CAN GET A
PROCESS, MACHINE, MANUFACTURE,
PATENT FOR ANY NEW AND USEFUL
AND COMPOSITION OF MATTER OR ANY
PROCESS, MACHINE, MANUFACTURE,
NEW AND USEFUL IMPROVEMENTS ON
AND COMPOSITION OF MATTER OR ANY
THAT INVENTION.
NEW AND USEFUL IMPROVEMENTS ON
BUT WHAT YOU CAN'T GET A PATENT
THAT INVENTION.
FOR IS THE APPLICATION OF A
BUT WHAT YOU CAN'T GET A PATENT
PRODUCT OF NATURE OR NATURAL
FOR IS THE APPLICATION OF A
PHENOMENON.
PRODUCT OF NATURE OR NATURAL
AND I THINK JUSTICE BREYER TODAY
PHENOMENON.
PUT THE CASE IN CONTEXT IN
AND I THINK JUSTICE BREYER TODAY
EXPLAINING THE LAW BY SAYING, IF
PUT THE CASE IN CONTEXT IN
YOU DEVELOP A PROCESS FOR
EXPLAINING THE LAW BY SAYING, IF
EXTRACTING FAT FROM A PLANT IN
YOU DEVELOP A PROCESS FOR
THE AMAZON, YOU CAN GET A PATENT
EXTRACTING FAT FROM A PLANT IN
FOR THE PROCESS.
THE AMAZON, YOU CAN GET A PATENT
IF YOU TAKE THE SAP AND YOU
FOR THE PROCESS.
MANIPULATE IT AND YOU COME UP
IF YOU TAKE THE SAP AND YOU
WITH A NEW USE, YOU CAN GET A
MANIPULATE IT AND YOU COME UP
PATENT ON THE USE.
WITH A NEW USE, YOU CAN GET A
BUT WHAT YOU CAN'T GET A PATENT
PATENT ON THE USE.
ON IS THE SAP ITSELF.
BUT WHAT YOU CAN'T GET A PATENT
>> Brown: SO THE JUSTICES REACH
ON IS THE SAP ITSELF.
FOR AN ANALOGY TO HELP THEM
>> Brown: SO THE JUSTICES REACH
UNDERSTAND.
FOR AN ANALOGY TO HELP THEM
>> EXACTLY.
UNDERSTAND.
Brown: SO WHAT HAPPENED IN
>> EXACTLY.
THESE ARGUMENTS?
Brown: SO WHAT HAPPENED IN
WHAT KIND OF QUESTIONS WERE THEY
THESE ARGUMENTS?
PURSUING?
WHAT KIND OF QUESTIONS WERE THEY
>> WELL, THE QUESTION FOR THE
PURSUING?
COURT IS WHETHER THESE GENES ARE
>> WELL, THE QUESTION FOR THE
PRODUCTS OF NATURE OR A
COURT IS WHETHER THESE GENES ARE
HUMAN-MADE INVENTION.
PRODUCTS OF NATURE OR A
SO FIRST UP AT THE LECTERN TODAY
HUMAN-MADE INVENTION.
WAS THE ATTORNEY FOR THE
SO FIRST UP AT THE LECTERN TODAY
CHALLENGERS, CHRIS MANSON OF THE
WAS THE ATTORNEY FOR THE
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION.
CHALLENGERS, CHRIS MANSON OF THE
HE SAID BASICALLY MYRIAD HAS
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION.
INVENTED NOTHING HERE.
HE SAID BASICALLY MYRIAD HAS
HE SAID MYRIAD DESERVES CREDIT
INVENTED NOTHING HERE.
FOR UNLOCKING THE SECRETS OF
HE SAID MYRIAD DESERVES CREDIT
THESE TWO GENES.
FOR UNLOCKING THE SECRETS OF
BUT THE ISOLATION OF THESE GENES
THESE TWO GENES.
FROM A STRAND OF D.N.A. IS
BUT THE ISOLATION OF THESE GENES
SOMETHING THAT IS ROUTINE AND
FROM A STRAND OF D.N.A. IS
DONE ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
SOMETHING THAT IS ROUTINE AND
BUT THE GENES THEMSELVES, HOW
DONE ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THEY WORK, WHAT THEY DO, WHAT
BUT THE GENES THEMSELVES, HOW
THEY FAIL TO DO, THOSE ARE
THEY WORK, WHAT THEY DO, WHAT
DECISIONS MADE BY NATURE.
THEY FAIL TO DO, THOSE ARE
WHILE MYRIAD DESERVES CREDIT FOR
DECISIONS MADE BY NATURE.
UNLOCKING THE SECRETS, IT
WHILE MYRIAD DESERVES CREDIT FOR
DOESN'T DESERVE PATENTS.
UNLOCKING THE SECRETS, IT
>> Brown: WHAT REACTION DID THAT
DOESN'T DESERVE PATENTS.
GET FROM THE JUSTICES?
>> Brown: WHAT REACTION DID THAT
>> THE JUSTICES ARE CONCERNED
GET FROM THE JUSTICES?
ABOUT THE INHERENT TENSION IN
>> THE JUSTICES ARE CONCERNED
PATENT CASES.
ABOUT THE INHERENT TENSION IN
THAT IS ON THE ONE HAND WE WANT
PATENT CASES.
TO ENCOURAGE INVESTMENT IN
THAT IS ON THE ONE HAND WE WANT
RESEARCH AND INVENTION.
TO ENCOURAGE INVESTMENT IN
MYRIAD, FOR EXAMPLE, SPENT
RESEARCH AND INVENTION.
ROUGHLY $500 MILLION UNTIL IT
MYRIAD, FOR EXAMPLE, SPENT
FOUND THESE TWO GENES.
ROUGHLY $500 MILLION UNTIL IT
THEN ON THE OTHER HAND, YOU
FOUND THESE TWO GENES.
DON'T WANT TO LOCK UP THAT
THEN ON THE OTHER HAND, YOU
INVENTION FOR YEARS TO PREVENT
DON'T WANT TO LOCK UP THAT
FURTHER RESEARCH AND NEW USES.
INVENTION FOR YEARS TO PREVENT
SO THE JUSTICES WERE ASKING
FURTHER RESEARCH AND NEW USES.
MR. HANSSEN, WELL, WHAT
SO THE JUSTICES WERE ASKING
INCENTIVE WILL MYRIAD HAVE TO DO
MR. HANSSEN, WELL, WHAT
THIS OR ANY COMPANY HAVE TO DO
INCENTIVE WILL MYRIAD HAVE TO DO
THIS KIND OF RESEARCH.
THIS OR ANY COMPANY HAVE TO DO
HE SAID THERE ARE LOTS OF
THIS KIND OF RESEARCH.
RESEARCHERS WHO WANT THESE GENES
HE SAID THERE ARE LOTS OF
IN ORDER TO DO RESEARCH AND AL
RESEARCHERS WHO WANT THESE GENES
ALSO, HE SAID, MYRIAD AND OTHER
IN ORDER TO DO RESEARCH AND AL
COMPANIES CAN ISSUE LICENSES TO
ALSO, HE SAID, MYRIAD AND OTHER
RESEARCHERS TO DO THAT KIND OF
COMPANIES CAN ISSUE LICENSES TO
WORK.
RESEARCHERS TO DO THAT KIND OF
>> Brown: AND THE ATTORNEY FOR
WORK.
MYRIAD WAS ABLE TO MAKE THOSE
>> Brown: AND THE ATTORNEY FOR
ARGUMENTS HIMSELF I GUESS ABOUT
MYRIAD WAS ABLE TO MAKE THOSE
WHY IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE
ARGUMENTS HIMSELF I GUESS ABOUT
COMPANY TO HAVE THE PATENT.
WHY IT IS IMPORTANT FOR THE
>> ABSOLUTELY.
COMPANY TO HAVE THE PATENT.
MYRIAD'S ATTORNEY WAS GREGORY
>> ABSOLUTELY.
CASTNILLAS.
MYRIAD'S ATTORNEY WAS GREGORY
HE TOLD THE COURT THAT THE HUMAN
CASTNILLAS.
INVENTION HERE WAS IN MYRIAD'S
HE TOLD THE COURT THAT THE HUMAN
IDENTIFYING AND ISOLATING THESE
INVENTION HERE WAS IN MYRIAD'S
GENES FROM THE STRAND OF D.N.A.
IDENTIFYING AND ISOLATING THESE
HE GAVE AS AN ANALOGY A BASEBALL
GENES FROM THE STRAND OF D.N.A.
BAT.
HE GAVE AS AN ANALOGY A BASEBALL
HE SAID A BAT DOESN'T EXIST
BAT.
UNTIL IT'S ISOLATED FROM A TREE.
HE SAID A BAT DOESN'T EXIST
BUT THE INVENTION IS IN DECIDING
UNTIL IT'S ISOLATED FROM A TREE.
WHERE TO BEGIN THE BAT AND WHERE
BUT THE INVENTION IS IN DECIDING
TO END THE BAT.
WHERE TO BEGIN THE BAT AND WHERE
HE FACED SKEPTICAL QUESTIONS
TO END THE BAT.
FROM CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS WHO
HE FACED SKEPTICAL QUESTIONS
SAID, WELL, NOW, WAIT A MINUTE.
FROM CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS WHO
WHAT'S INVOLVED HERE IS SNIPPING
SAID, WELL, NOW, WAIT A MINUTE.
THIS STRAND OF D.N.A.
WHAT'S INVOLVED HERE IS SNIPPING
YOU CUT HERE.
THIS STRAND OF D.N.A.
YOU CUT THERE.
YOU CUT HERE.
YOU'VE GOT THE GENES.
YOU CUT THERE.
BUT A BAT IS DIFFERENT.
YOU'VE GOT THE GENES.
YOU DON'T... YOU HAVE TO INVENT
BUT A BAT IS DIFFERENT.
THE BAT.
YOU DON'T... YOU HAVE TO INVENT
YOU DON'T LOOK AT A TREE BRANCH
THE BAT.
AND SAY, IF I CUT HERE AND CUT
YOU DON'T LOOK AT A TREE BRANCH
THERE I HAVE A BASEBALL BAT.
AND SAY, IF I CUT HERE AND CUT
>> Brown: WHAT IS THE FEELING
THERE I HAVE A BASEBALL BAT.
AMONG THE INTERESTED PARTIES
>> Brown: WHAT IS THE FEELING
BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE JOINED
AMONG THE INTERESTED PARTIES
INTO THIS ABOUT THE IMPLICATIONS
BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE JOINED
HERE FOR THE OUTCOME BEYOND THIS
INTO THIS ABOUT THE IMPLICATIONS
CASE?
HERE FOR THE OUTCOME BEYOND THIS
>> THIS CASE IS REALLY PITTED
CASE?
BIOTECHNOLOGY, AGRICULTURAL... A
>> THIS CASE IS REALLY PITTED
WHOLE SLEW OF RESEARCH
BIOTECHNOLOGY, AGRICULTURAL... A
ORGANIZATIONS AGAINST CIVIL
WHOLE SLEW OF RESEARCH
RIGHTS GROUPS, INDIVIDUALS,
ORGANIZATIONS AGAINST CIVIL
SCIENTISTS.
RIGHTS GROUPS, INDIVIDUALS,
THEY'RE ALL CONCERNED ABOUT HOW
SCIENTISTS.
BROADLY THE COURT MIGHT RULE
THEY'RE ALL CONCERNED ABOUT HOW
HERE.
BROADLY THE COURT MIGHT RULE
LOTS OF GENES HAVE BEEN
HERE.
PATENTED.
LOTS OF GENES HAVE BEEN
AND WHAT THE COURT SAYS IN TERMS
PATENTED.
OF THIS TYPE OF GENE VERSUS
AND WHAT THE COURT SAYS IN TERMS
MAYBE A MORE NARROW DECISION
OF THIS TYPE OF GENE VERSUS
WILL HAVE MANY IMPLICATIONS FOR
MAYBE A MORE NARROW DECISION
HOW RESEARCH IS DONE IN THE
WILL HAVE MANY IMPLICATIONS FOR
FUTURE AS WELL AS FOR
HOW RESEARCH IS DONE IN THE
INDIVIDUALIZED MEDICINE.
FUTURE AS WELL AS FOR
>> Brown: MARCIA COYLE, THANK
INDIVIDUALIZED MEDICINE.
YOU AS ALWAYS.
>> Brown: MARCIA COYLE, THANK
>> MY PLEASURE, JEFF.
YOU AS ALWAYS.
Brown: WE CONTINUE OUR LOOK
>> MY PLEASURE, JEFF.
AT THIS CASE AND THE LARGER
Brown: WE CONTINUE OUR LOOK
IMPLICATIONS WITH ELLEN MATLOFF
AT THIS CASE AND THE LARGER
DIRECTOR OF CANCER GENETIC
IMPLICATIONS WITH ELLEN MATLOFF
COUNSELING AT YALE CANCER
DIRECTOR OF CANCER GENETIC
CENTER.
COUNSELING AT YALE CANCER
SHE'S A PLAINTIFF IN TODAY'S
CENTER.
CASE.
SHE'S A PLAINTIFF IN TODAY'S
KEVIN NOONAN AN INTELLECTUAL
CASE.
PROPERTY ATTORNEY AND FOUNDER OF
KEVIN NOONAN AN INTELLECTUAL
THE BLOG PATENT DOCs, DOT-ORG.
PROPERTY ATTORNEY AND FOUNDER OF
YOU HEARD MARCIA TALK ABOUT THE
THE BLOG PATENT DOCs, DOT-ORG.
LEGAL ARGUMENTS.
YOU HEARD MARCIA TALK ABOUT THE
AS SOMEONE INVOLVED IN GENETIC
LEGAL ARGUMENTS.
COUNSELING AND RESEARCH, WHAT'S
AS SOMEONE INVOLVED IN GENETIC
THE ESSENCE OF THIS CASE FOR
COUNSELING AND RESEARCH, WHAT'S
YOU?
THE ESSENCE OF THIS CASE FOR
WHAT'S AT STAKE?
YOU?
>> WELL, I'VE REALLY SEEN FROM
WHAT'S AT STAKE?
THE GROUND FLOOR WHAT THIS HAS
>> WELL, I'VE REALLY SEEN FROM
DONE TO PATIENT CARE OVER THE
THE GROUND FLOOR WHAT THIS HAS
LAST 15 YEARS.
DONE TO PATIENT CARE OVER THE
KEEP IMINDN  THAT WHEN THESE
LAST 15 YEARS.
NESGE WERE CLONED MANY
KEEP IMINDN  THAT WHEN THESE
LABORATORIES WERE OFFERING THIS
NESGE WERE CLONED MANY
TESTING.
LABORATORIES WERE OFFERING THIS
THERE WAS NOTHING NOVEL HERE, NO
TESTING.
INVENTION, NO SPECIAL PROCESS,
THERE WAS NOTHING NOVEL HERE, NO
NO SPECIAL MACHINE.
INVENTION, NO SPECIAL PROCESS,
WE WERE DOING THIS TESTING IN
NO SPECIAL MACHINE.
OUR LABORATORY AT YALE.
WE WERE DOING THIS TESTING IN
AND THEN WHEN THE PATENTS
OUR LABORATORY AT YALE.
BECAME... WHEN THEY CLAMPED DOWN
AND THEN WHEN THE PATENTS
ON THE PATENTS, OUR LABS AND ALL
BECAME... WHEN THEY CLAMPED DOWN
OTHERS WERE SHUT DOWN.
ON THE PATENTS, OUR LABS AND ALL
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN, SAME
OTHERS WERE SHUT DOWN.
QUESTION TO YOU.
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN, SAME
AS SOMEONE INVOLVED IN THE
QUESTION TO YOU.
PATENT WORLD AND RESEARCH, WHAT
AS SOMEONE INVOLVED IN THE
DO YOU THINK I THES ESSENCE OF
PATENT WORLD AND RESEARCH, WHAT
THIS?
DO YOU THINK I THES ESSENCE OF
>> I THINK THAT THAT IS TRUE.
THIS?
YOU'RE LOOKING AT WHAT IS GOING
>> I THINK THAT THAT IS TRUE.
TO ENABLE THE TECHNOLOGY TO GET
YOU'RE LOOKING AT WHAT IS GOING
TO THE MOST PATIENTS THE
TO ENABLE THE TECHNOLOGY TO GET
QUICKEST AND THE MOST RELIABLY.
TO THE MOST PATIENTS THE
FRANKLY MYRIAD HAS DONE A GREAT
QUICKEST AND THE MOST RELIABLY.
JOB OF DOING THAT BECAUSE THERE
FRANKLY MYRIAD HAS DONE A GREAT
ARE MORE PEOPLE WHO HAVE GOTTEN
JOB OF DOING THAT BECAUSE THERE
THIS TEST THAN I THINK WOULD
ARE MORE PEOPLE WHO HAVE GOTTEN
HAVE GOTTEN IT OTHERWISE MORE
THIS TEST THAN I THINK WOULD
CONSISTENTLY AND MORE RELIABLY
HAVE GOTTEN IT OTHERWISE MORE
THAN IF IT HAD BEEN SCATTERED
CONSISTENTLY AND MORE RELIABLY
AMONG HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
THAN IF IT HAD BEEN SCATTERED
INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH LABS.
AMONG HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
>> Brown: ELLEN, ADDRESS THAT
INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH LABS.
SPECIFICALLY.
>> Brown: ELLEN, ADDRESS THAT
THAT CLAIM HAS BEEN PUT OUT
SPECIFICALLY.
THERE THAT SCHOLARLY WORK HAS
THAT CLAIM HAS BEEN PUT OUT
HARDLY BEEN STOPPED.
THERE THAT SCHOLARLY WORK HAS
THERE'S BEEN PLENTY OF RESEARCH
HARDLY BEEN STOPPED.
DONE.
THERE'S BEEN PLENTY OF RESEARCH
I MEAN STUDIES OF THE RESEARCH
DONE.
DONE ON THIS.
I MEAN STUDIES OF THE RESEARCH
>> I THINK THOSE OF US IN THE
DONE ON THIS.
KNOW WILL TELL YOU THAT THIS HAS
>> I THINK THOSE OF US IN THE
HAD A CHILLING EFFECT ON
KNOW WILL TELL YOU THAT THIS HAS
RESEARCH AND NOT AS MUCH
HAD A CHILLING EFFECT ON
RESEARCH HAS BEEN ABLE TO BE
RESEARCH AND NOT AS MUCH
DONE.
RESEARCH HAS BEEN ABLE TO BE
ONE COMPANY HAS HAD A MONOPOLY
DONE.
ON THIS TESTING.
ONE COMPANY HAS HAD A MONOPOLY
FOR COMPANIES AND LABORATORIES
ON THIS TESTING.
THAT WANTED TO FIND BETTER WAYS
FOR COMPANIES AND LABORATORIES
TO LOOK FOR MUTATIONS, FASTER
THAT WANTED TO FIND BETTER WAYS
WAYS, LESS EXPENSIVE WAYS,
TO LOOK FOR MUTATIONS, FASTER
THEY'VE BEEN STOPPED.
WAYS, LESS EXPENSIVE WAYS,
YES, MYRIAD HAS DONE A GREAT JOB
THEY'VE BEEN STOPPED.
OF MARKETING THIS TEST TO A LOT
YES, MYRIAD HAS DONE A GREAT JOB
OF PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
OF MARKETING THIS TEST TO A LOT
HUGE FINANCIAL INCENTIVE.
OF PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
BUT MANY PATIENTS WHO REALLY
HUGE FINANCIAL INCENTIVE.
DIDN'T NEED THE TESTS WERE
BUT MANY PATIENTS WHO REALLY
FRIGHTENED INTO THINKING THEY
DIDN'T NEED THE TESTS WERE
DID BY MYRIAD'S MARKETING.
FRIGHTENED INTO THINKING THEY
AND INSURANCE COMPANIES CLAMPED
DID BY MYRIAD'S MARKETING.
DOWN ON WHO COULD HAVE THE TEST.
AND INSURANCE COMPANIES CLAMPED
IT'S MADE IT DIFFICULT FOR SOME
DOWN ON WHO COULD HAVE THE TEST.
OF MY PATIENTS WHO NEED THE TEST
IT'S MADE IT DIFFICULT FOR SOME
TO ACTUALLY GET IT.
OF MY PATIENTS WHO NEED THE TEST
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN, WHERE
TO ACTUALLY GET IT.
SHOULD THE LINE BE DRAWN THAT
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN, WHERE
MARCIA COYLE JUST RAISED AND THE
SHOULD THE LINE BE DRAWN THAT
JUSTICES CLEARLY RAISED TODAY
MARCIA COYLE JUST RAISED AND THE
BETWEEN ALLOWING THE COMPANY TO
JUSTICES CLEARLY RAISED TODAY
REAP A REWARD FROM ITS
BETWEEN ALLOWING THE COMPANY TO
INVESTMENT AND GETTING THE
REAP A REWARD FROM ITS
INFORMATION OUT TO THOSE WHO
INVESTMENT AND GETTING THE
NEED IT?
INFORMATION OUT TO THOSE WHO
>> I THINK WHAT YOU HAVE TO
NEED IT?
REALIZE IS WHAT HAPPENS IN THESE
>> I THINK WHAT YOU HAVE TO
INSTANCES IS THAT IF YOU DON'T
REALIZE IS WHAT HAPPENS IN THESE
PERMIT PEOPLE TO PATENT, WHICH
INSTANCES IS THAT IF YOU DON'T
IS SOMETHING THAT WILL END UP
PERMIT PEOPLE TO PATENT, WHICH
WITH FULL DISCLOSURE OF WHAT THE
IS SOMETHING THAT WILL END UP
INVENTION IS SO THAT WHEN THE
WITH FULL DISCLOSURE OF WHAT THE
PATENTS EXPIRE WHICH WILL HAPPEN
INVENTION IS SO THAT WHEN THE
IN ABOUT TWO YEARS, EVERYBODY
PATENTS EXPIRE WHICH WILL HAPPEN
GETS TO USE THE INVENTION.
IN ABOUT TWO YEARS, EVERYBODY
IF YOU DON'T DO THAT, FOR MOST
GETS TO USE THE INVENTION.
GENES, FOR MOST DISEASES IT
IF YOU DON'T DO THAT, FOR MOST
WON'T BE AS SIMPLE OR
GENES, FOR MOST DISEASES IT
STRAIGHTFORWARD AS IT WITH THESE
WON'T BE AS SIMPLE OR
GENES AND WHAT WILL HAPPEN IS
STRAIGHTFORWARD AS IT WITH THESE
THATOP WON'T DISCLOSE IT.
GENES AND WHAT WILL HAPPEN IS
THEY'LL HIDE IT.
THATOP WON'T DISCLOSE IT.
THEY'LL FIGURE OUT WAYS THEY CAN
THEY'LL HIDE IT.
DO THIS TESTING WITHOUT
THEY'LL FIGURE OUT WAYS THEY CAN
DISCLOSING WHAT THE BASIS IS.
DO THIS TESTING WITHOUT
IF THEY DID THAT, THEN THE
DISCLOSING WHAT THE BASIS IS.
MONOPOLY, IF YOU WILL, WOULD
IF THEY DID THAT, THEN THE
LAST FOR A MUCH LONGER TIME.
MONOPOLY, IF YOU WILL, WOULD
ONE THING I WILL SAY IS THAT
LAST FOR A MUCH LONGER TIME.
THERE HAVE BEEN MORE THAN 10,000
ONE THING I WILL SAY IS THAT
BASIC RESEARCH PAPERS THAT HAVE
THERE HAVE BEEN MORE THAN 10,000
BEEN PUBLISHED NEAR THE MYRIAD
BASIC RESEARCH PAPERS THAT HAVE
PATENTS WERE ISSUED.
BEEN PUBLISHED NEAR THE MYRIAD
IN ABOUT 12 OR 15 YEARS.
PATENTS WERE ISSUED.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT TO ME.
IN ABOUT 12 OR 15 YEARS.
I THINK BASIC RESEARCH IS BEING
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A LOT TO ME.
DONE.
I THINK BASIC RESEARCH IS BEING
WHAT'S NOT BEING DONE IS
DONE.
CLINICAL WORK CHARGING PATIENTS
WHAT'S NOT BEING DONE IS
FOR THE TESTS IN THE FACE OF THE
CLINICAL WORK CHARGING PATIENTS
PATENT.
FOR THE TESTS IN THE FACE OF THE
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THAT,
PATENT.
ELLEN, I MEAN, ABOUT THE
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THAT,
ARGUMENT THAT THE WORK MIGHT NOT
ELLEN, I MEAN, ABOUT THE
GET DONE IF THE PATENT ISN'T
ARGUMENT THAT THE WORK MIGHT NOT
GIVEN?
GET DONE IF THE PATENT ISN'T
>> I THINK THOSE OF US WHO WORK
GIVEN?
IN GENETICS KNOW THAT THAT JUST
>> I THINK THOSE OF US WHO WORK
ISN'T TRUE.
IN GENETICS KNOW THAT THAT JUST
BEFORE BCRA1 AND 2 THERE WERE
ISN'T TRUE.
HUNDREDS AND HUNDREDS OF GENES
BEFORE BCRA1 AND 2 THERE WERE
DISCOVERED.
HUNDREDS AND HUNDREDS OF GENES
PATENTS ON MANY OF THOSE GENES
DISCOVERED.
NONE OF THEM WERE USED IN THIS
PATENTS ON MANY OF THOSE GENES
WAY.
NONE OF THEM WERE USED IN THIS
TESTING WAS AVAILABLE FOR ALL OF
WAY.
THOSE GENES.
TESTING WAS AVAILABLE FOR ALL OF
THIS IS JUST A COMPANY THAT HAS
THOSE GENES.
DONE SOMETHING UNPRECEDENTED IN
THIS IS JUST A COMPANY THAT HAS
THE WAY THEY'VE CLAMPED DOWN ON
DONE SOMETHING UNPRECEDENTED IN
THIS PATENT.
THE WAY THEY'VE CLAMPED DOWN ON
QUITE FRANKLY THERE IS NO
THIS PATENT.
INVENTION HERE.
QUITE FRANKLY THERE IS NO
THEY DIDN'T INVENT ANYTHING.
INVENTION HERE.
>> Brown: STAYING WITH YOU,
THEY DIDN'T INVENT ANYTHING.
ELLEN, IF YOU GO BEYOND THIS
>> Brown: STAYING WITH YOU,
CASE, WHERE ELSE IN THE WORLD OF
ELLEN, IF YOU GO BEYOND THIS
RESEARCH AND TESTING WOULD THIS
CASE, WHERE ELSE IN THE WORLD OF
HAVE CONSEQUENCES?
RESEARCH AND TESTING WOULD THIS
>> HUGE CONSEQUENCES.
HAVE CONSEQUENCES?
WE'RE REALLY COME TO A FORK IN
>> HUGE CONSEQUENCES.
THE ROAD HERE.
WE'RE REALLY COME TO A FORK IN
MOVING FORWARD WE'RE GOING TO BE
THE ROAD HERE.
ABLE TO DO WHOLE GENOME
MOVING FORWARD WE'RE GOING TO BE
SEQUENCING ON ONE D.N.A. SAMPLE,
ABLE TO DO WHOLE GENOME
A TINY TUBE OF BLOOD.
SEQUENCING ON ONE D.N.A. SAMPLE,
WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO LOOK
A TINY TUBE OF BLOOD.
AT 30,000 GENES.
WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO LOOK
PEOPLE ARE ESTIMATING THAT THAT
AT 30,000 GENES.
MIGHT EVEN COST $1,000 TO LOOK
PEOPLE ARE ESTIMATING THAT THAT
AT 30,000 GENES WITH MYRIAD AND
MIGHT EVEN COST $1,000 TO LOOK
THEIR MONOPOLY THEY'RE CHARGING
AT 30,000 GENES WITH MYRIAD AND
$4,000 PER PATIENT FOR TWO
THEIR MONOPOLY THEY'RE CHARGING
GENES.
$4,000 PER PATIENT FOR TWO
IMAGINE IF EVERYONE OF THOSE
GENES.
GENES WAS PATENTED.
IMAGINE IF EVERYONE OF THOSE
THINK ABOUT THE COST OF THIS
GENES WAS PATENTED.
TESTING.
THINK ABOUT THE COST OF THIS
IT WOULD NOT REACH THE AVERAGE
TESTING.
CONSUMER.
IT WOULD NOT REACH THE AVERAGE
IT WOULDN'T REACH ANYONE.
CONSUMER.
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN, WHAT
IT WOULDN'T REACH ANYONE.
ABOUT THAT?
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN, WHAT
>> FIRST OF ALL THAT'S PROBABLY
ABOUT THAT?
NOT GOING TO BE THE CASE.
>> FIRST OF ALL THAT'S PROBABLY
SECRETARILY, THE WHOLE GENOME
NOT GOING TO BE THE CASE.
SEQUENCING WOULDN'T INFRINGE THE
SECRETARILY, THE WHOLE GENOME
PATENTS AT ISSUE HERE.
SEQUENCING WOULDN'T INFRINGE THE
THE SAD THING IS THAT THE GENES
PATENTS AT ISSUE HERE.
AT ISSUE EVEN IF THE SUPREME
THE SAD THING IS THAT THE GENES
COURT WERE TO RULE IN ITS ENTIRE
AT ISSUE EVEN IF THE SUPREME
TEE THAT THE PETITIONERS WIN, IF
COURT WERE TO RULE IN ITS ENTIRE
A DOCTOR WERE TO OR IF YALE
TEE THAT THE PETITIONERS WIN, IF
STARTED TO DO THIS TESTING THE
A DOCTOR WERE TO OR IF YALE
DAY AFTER THAT DECISION, MYRIAD
STARTED TO DO THIS TESTING THE
HAS LOTS OF OTHER PATENTS WITH
DAY AFTER THAT DECISION, MYRIAD
LOTS OF OTHER CLAIMS THAT ARE
HAS LOTS OF OTHER PATENTS WITH
DIRECTED NOT TO THE GENES BUT TO
LOTS OF OTHER CLAIMS THAT ARE
THE METHODS THEMSELVES.
DIRECTED NOT TO THE GENES BUT TO
AND THINGS THAT THE COURT SEEMED
THE METHODS THEMSELVES.
NOT TO THINK WERE A PROBLEM.
AND THINGS THAT THE COURT SEEMED
AND THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO SUE
NOT TO THINK WERE A PROBLEM.
THEM ON THOSE PATENTS SO THE
AND THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO SUE
PROBLEM IS THAT THE ANSWERS YOU
THEM ON THOSE PATENTS SO THE
GET THAT THE GENES ARE
PROBLEM IS THAT THE ANSWERS YOU
PATENTABLE OR NOT IS REALLY NOT
GET THAT THE GENES ARE
GOING TO IMPACT THE ISSUE THAT'S
PATENTABLE OR NOT IS REALLY NOT
BEEN RAISED ABOUT WHETHER
GOING TO IMPACT THE ISSUE THAT'S
PATIENTS WILL GET CARE.
BEEN RAISED ABOUT WHETHER
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN JUST TO
PATIENTS WILL GET CARE.
STAY WITH YOU.
>> Brown: KEVIN NOONAN JUST TO
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I'VE SEEN
STAY WITH YOU.
RAISED IS WHETHER THE PACE OF
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I'VE SEEN
CHANGE IN THE FIELD OF GENETIC
RAISED IS WHETHER THE PACE OF
RESEARCH IS OUTSTRIPPING THE
CHANGE IN THE FIELD OF GENETIC
LAW.
RESEARCH IS OUTSTRIPPING THE
HOW RELEVANT IS A CASE LIKE
LAW.
THIS?
HOW RELEVANT IS A CASE LIKE
YOU WATCH THESE DEVELOPMENTS.
THIS?
WHAT IS YOUR ANSWER TO THAT?
YOU WATCH THESE DEVELOPMENTS.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT THE CASE IS
WHAT IS YOUR ANSWER TO THAT?
ABOUT 30 YEARS TOO LATE.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT THE CASE IS
>> Brown: 30 YEARS?
ABOUT 30 YEARS TOO LATE.
YEAH, BECAUSE THAT'S WHEN
>> Brown: 30 YEARS?
GENES WERE FIRST PATENTED.
YEAH, BECAUSE THAT'S WHEN
IT WAS 1980 OR SO.
GENES WERE FIRST PATENTED.
SO RIGHT NOW, IF YOU LOOK AT
IT WAS 1980 OR SO.
JUST THE PROCEDURAL ASPECTS OF
SO RIGHT NOW, IF YOU LOOK AT
PATENT LAW, A PATENT IS GRANTED
JUST THE PROCEDURAL ASPECTS OF
WITH A TERM OF 20 YEARS FROM
PATENT LAW, A PATENT IS GRANTED
WHEN THE APPLICATION WAS FILED.
WITH A TERM OF 20 YEARS FROM
MOST OF THE GENE PATENTS THAT
WHEN THE APPLICATION WAS FILED.
ARE OUT THERE, MOST OF THE NEW
MOST OF THE GENE PATENTS THAT
ONES, WERE FILED AROUND THE TURN
ARE OUT THERE, MOST OF THE NEW
OF THE CENTURY.
ONES, WERE FILED AROUND THE TURN
BY 2020 THEY'LL ALL EXPIRE JUST
OF THE CENTURY.
BY THE NATURE OF THE WAY THAT
BY 2020 THEY'LL ALL EXPIRE JUST
THE PATENT SYSTEM WORKS.
BY THE NATURE OF THE WAY THAT
AND SO MANY OF... FOR THESE
THE PATENT SYSTEM WORKS.
CLAIMS OR THESE TYPES OF CLAIMS,
AND SO MANY OF... FOR THESE
MANY OF THE PROBLEMS, MANY OF
CLAIMS OR THESE TYPES OF CLAIMS,
THE THINGS THAT PEOPLE ARE
MANY OF THE PROBLEMS, MANY OF
AFRAID OF JUST WON'T COME TO
THE THINGS THAT PEOPLE ARE
PASS.
AFRAID OF JUST WON'T COME TO
>> Brown: A BRIEF LAST WORD TO
PASS.
YOU, ELLEN, ON THAT VERY ISSUE
>> Brown: A BRIEF LAST WORD TO
ON WHETHER THE SCIENCE IS
YOU, ELLEN, ON THAT VERY ISSUE
OUTSTRIPPING THE LAW.
ON WHETHER THE SCIENCE IS
>> I THINK WE'RE FINDING NEW
OUTSTRIPPING THE LAW.
WAYS AROUND THINGS LIKE ISOLATED
>> I THINK WE'RE FINDING NEW
D.N.A., BUT MOVING FORWARD THIS
WAYS AROUND THINGS LIKE ISOLATED
IS A BIGGER ISSUE.
D.N.A., BUT MOVING FORWARD THIS
ARE WE GOING TO LET PEOPLE
IS A BIGGER ISSUE.
PATENT THINGS THAT OCCUR IN THE
ARE WE GOING TO LET PEOPLE
HUMAN BODY THAT THEY DID NOT
PATENT THINGS THAT OCCUR IN THE
INVENT BECAUSE IF WE DO DO THAT,
HUMAN BODY THAT THEY DID NOT
IT'S GOING TO HINDER THE FUTURE
INVENT BECAUSE IF WE DO DO THAT,
OF PERSONALIZED MEDICINE.
IT'S GOING TO HINDER THE FUTURE
I DON'T THINK WE WANT THAT.
OF PERSONALIZED MEDICINE.
>> Brown: ELLEN MATLOFF AND
I DON'T THINK WE WANT THAT.
KEVIN NOONAN, THANK YOU BOTH
>> Brown: ELLEN MATLOFF AND
VERY MUCH.
KEVIN NOONAN, THANK YOU BOTH
>> THANKS VERY MUCH.
VERY MUCH.
YOU.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH.
Ifill: THE POLITICAL
YOU.
>> Ifill: THE POLITICAL PUSH FOR
Ifill: THE POLITICAL
OVERHAULING THE NATION'S
>> Ifill: THE POLITICAL PUSH FOR
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM GAINS NEW
OVERHAULING THE NATION'S
MOMENTUM.
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM GAINS NEW
SUSPECT WE'RE ALL HERE TO
MOMENTUM.
SEND A VERY CLEAR MESSAGE.
SUSPECT WE'RE ALL HERE TO
WE ARE READY.
SEND A VERY CLEAR MESSAGE.
>> Ifill: CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT
WE ARE READY.
JAVIER LED OTHER SUPPORTERS OF
>> Ifill: CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
JAVIER LED OTHER SUPPORTERS OF
IN A CAPITOL HILL RALLY TODAY.
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM
INSID THE CAPITOL, A BIPARTISAN
IN A CAPITOL HILL RALLY TODAY.
GROUP OF EIGHT SENATORS PUT THE
INSID THE CAPITOL, A BIPARTISAN
FINISHING TOUCHES ON LEGISLATION
GROUP OF EIGHT SENATORS PUT THE
TO OVERHAUL THE SYSTEM.
FINISHING TOUCHES ON LEGISLATION
EXPECTED TO BE UNVEILED
TO OVERHAUL THE SYSTEM.
TOMORROW.
EXPECTED TO BE UNVEILED
FLORIDA REPUBLICAN MARCO RUBIO,
TOMORROW.
ONE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE
FLORIDA REPUBLICAN MARCO RUBIO,
SO-CALLED GANG OF EIGHT,
ONE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE
DESCRIBED THE PLAN SUNDAY ON
SO-CALLED GANG OF EIGHT,
SEVEN TALK SHOWS.
DESCRIBED THE PLAN SUNDAY ON
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
SEVEN TALK SHOWS.
UNDERSTAND IT DOESN'T GIVE
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
ANYTHING.
UNDERSTAND IT DOESN'T GIVE
IT ALLOWS PEOPLE ACCESS TO THE
ANYTHING.
LEGAL IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
IT ALLOWS PEOPLE ACCESS TO THE
NUMBER TWO SOME PEOPLE WON'T
LEGAL IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
QUALIFY.
NUMBER TWO SOME PEOPLE WON'T
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN HERE LONG
QUALIFY.
ENOUGH.
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN HERE LONG
THEY'VE COMMITTED SERIOUS
ENOUGH.
CRIMES.
THEY'VE COMMITTED SERIOUS
THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO STAY.
CRIMES.
ALL PEOPLE WILL GET IS THE
THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO STAY.
OPPORTUNITY TO APPLY FOR THING,
ALL PEOPLE WILL GET IS THE
TO APPLY FOR A LEGAL STATUS
OPPORTUNITY TO APPLY FOR THING,
WHICH ISN'T AWARDED ON DAY ONE
TO APPLY FOR A LEGAL STATUS
MUCH THERE'S A PROCESS FOR THAT.
WHICH ISN'T AWARDED ON DAY ONE
>> Ifill: ALTHOUGH IT HAS NOT
MUCH THERE'S A PROCESS FOR THAT.
BEEN FORMERLY INTRODUCED IT'S
>> Ifill: ALTHOUGH IT HAS NOT
BEEN WIDELY REPORTED THAT THE
BEEN FORMERLY INTRODUCED IT'S
LEGISLATION WOULD PROVIDE A
BEEN WIDELY REPORTED THAT THE
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP FOR THE
LEGISLATION WOULD PROVIDE A
SOMETIMED 11 MILLION
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP FOR THE
UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE NOW IN THE
SOMETIMED 11 MILLION
COUNTRY AND ESTABLISH A TEN-YEAR
UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE NOW IN THE
PROCESS FOR OBTAINING A GREEN
COUNTRY AND ESTABLISH A TEN-YEAR
CARD, GAINING FULL CITIZENSHIP
PROCESS FOR OBTAINING A GREEN
WOULD TAKE ANOTHER THREE YEARS.
CARD, GAINING FULL CITIZENSHIP
APPLICANTS WOULD HAVE TO PAY A
WOULD TAKE ANOTHER THREE YEARS.
FINE AND BACK TAXES, LEARN
APPLICANTS WOULD HAVE TO PAY A
ENGLISH, AND PASS A CRIMINAL
FINE AND BACK TAXES, LEARN
BACKGROUND CHECK AMONG OTHER
ENGLISH, AND PASS A CRIMINAL
HURDLES.
BACKGROUND CHECK AMONG OTHER
RUBIO SAYS THAT SYSTEM WOULD BE
HURDLES.
TRIGGERED ONLY IF CERTAIN BORDER
RUBIO SAYS THAT SYSTEM WOULD BE
SECURITY BENCHMARKS ARE MET.
TRIGGERED ONLY IF CERTAIN BORDER
>> THAT MEANS SECURING THE
SECURITY BENCHMARKS ARE MET.
BORDER, UNIVERSAL E-VERIFY AND
>> THAT MEANS SECURING THE
THE UNIVERSAL ENTRY-EXIT
BORDER, UNIVERSAL E-VERIFY AND
TRACKING SYSTEM.
THE UNIVERSAL ENTRY-EXIT
IF THOSE THREE THINGS ARE NOT IN
TRACKING SYSTEM.
PLACE THAT GREEN CARD PROCESS
IF THOSE THREE THINGS ARE NOT IN
WON'T BEGIN EVEN IF THE TEN
PLACE THAT GREEN CARD PROCESS
YEARS HAS ELAPSED.
WON'T BEGIN EVEN IF THE TEN
>> Ifill: BUT SOME REPUBLICANS
YEARS HAS ELAPSED.
WERE SKEPTICAL INCLUDING ALABAMA
>> Ifill: BUT SOME REPUBLICANS
SENATOR JEFF SESSIONS.
WERE SKEPTICAL INCLUDING ALABAMA
>> NO, I'M NOT CONVINCED.
SENATOR JEFF SESSIONS.
I KNOW SENATOR RUBIO'S HEART IS
>> NO, I'M NOT CONVINCED.
EXACTLY RIGHT.
I KNOW SENATOR RUBIO'S HEART IS
I REALLY RESPECT THE WORK OF THE
EXACTLY RIGHT.
GANG OF EIGHT.
I REALLY RESPECT THE WORK OF THE
BUT THEY HAVE PRODUCED A
GANG OF EIGHT.
LEGISLATION THAT WILL GIVE
BUT THEY HAVE PRODUCED A
AMNESTY NOW, LEGALIZE EVERYONE
LEGISLATION THAT WILL GIVE
THAT IS HERE EFFECTIVELY TODAY
AMNESTY NOW, LEGALIZE EVERYONE
AND THEN THERE'S A PROMISE OF
THAT IS HERE EFFECTIVELY TODAY
ENFORCEMENT IN THE FUTURE.
AND THEN THERE'S A PROMISE OF
>> Ifill: WHITE HOUSE PRESS
ENFORCEMENT IN THE FUTURE.
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID TODAY
>> Ifill: WHITE HOUSE PRESS
THE ADMINISTRATION BELIEVES IT'S
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID TODAY
POSSIBLE TO SATISFY CONCERNS ON
THE ADMINISTRATION BELIEVES IT'S
BOTH SIDES.
POSSIBLE TO SATISFY CONCERNS ON
>> THESE ARE COMPATIBLE IDEAS
BOTH SIDES.
ENHANCING BORDER SECURITY,
>> THESE ARE COMPATIBLE IDEAS
ALLOWING FOR A CLEAR PATH TO
ENHANCING BORDER SECURITY,
CITIZENSHIP THAT REQUIRES A
ALLOWING FOR A CLEAR PATH TO
NUMBER OF VERY SPECIFIC STEPS.
CITIZENSHIP THAT REQUIRES A
SO THE PRESIDENT IS VERY PLEASED
NUMBER OF VERY SPECIFIC STEPS.
WITH THE PROGRESS WE'VE SEEN
SO THE PRESIDENT IS VERY PLEASED
THUS FAR.
WITH THE PROGRESS WE'VE SEEN
>> Ifill: ONCE THE BILL IS
THUS FAR.
FORMERLY ROLLED OUT TOMORROW THE
>> Ifill: ONCE THE BILL IS
SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WILL
FORMERLY ROLLED OUT TOMORROW THE
HOLD ITS FIRST HEARING LATER
SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WILL
THIS WEEK.
HOLD ITS FIRST HEARING LATER
TO HELP US SORT THROUGH THE NEXT
THIS WEEK.
STEPS WE'RE JOINED BY BRIAN
TO HELP US SORT THROUGH THE NEXT
BENNETT WHO COVERS IMMIGRATION
STEPS WE'RE JOINED BY BRIAN
FOR THE LOS ANGELES TIMES.
BENNETT WHO COVERS IMMIGRATION
BRIAN, WHAT WAS IT THAT THE
FOR THE LOS ANGELES TIMES.
BIPARTISAN GROUP HAS NOW AGREED
BRIAN, WHAT WAS IT THAT THE
TO AND WHAT ARE THE ISSUES THAT
BIPARTISAN GROUP HAS NOW AGREED
ARE STILL OUTSTANDING?
TO AND WHAT ARE THE ISSUES THAT
>> THE BIPARTISAN GROUP PLANS TO
ARE STILL OUTSTANDING?
UNVEIL THEIR BILL TOMORROW ON
>> THE BIPARTISAN GROUP PLANS TO
TUESDAY PROBABLY.
UNVEIL THEIR BILL TOMORROW ON
MAYBE AS SOON AS TOMORROW.
TUESDAY PROBABLY.
THEY'VE AGREED ON ALMOST ALL THE
MAYBE AS SOON AS TOMORROW.
MAJOR POINTS.
THEY'VE AGREED ON ALMOST ALL THE
THEY'RE STILL FINE-TUNING THE
MAJOR POINTS.
BILL TODAY AND WILL UNVEIL WHAT
THEY'RE STILL FINE-TUNING THE
THEY'VE DECIDED ON TOMORROW.
BILL TODAY AND WILL UNVEIL WHAT
SO THE MAIN POINTS ARE THAT
THEY'VE DECIDED ON TOMORROW.
THERE WILL BE A LEGALIZATION
SO THE MAIN POINTS ARE THAT
PROGRAM FOR THE 11 MILLION
THERE WILL BE A LEGALIZATION
PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE WITHOUT
PROGRAM FOR THE 11 MILLION
PAPERS OR WHO HAVE OVERSTAYED
PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE WITHOUT
THEIR VISAS.
PAPERS OR WHO HAVE OVERSTAYED
THIS PROGRAM WOULD START ABOUT
THEIR VISAS.
SIX MONTHS AFTER THE BILL IS
THIS PROGRAM WOULD START ABOUT
PASSED, AFTER THE DEPARTMENT OF
SIX MONTHS AFTER THE BILL IS
HOMELAND SECURITY HAS OUTLINED A
PASSED, AFTER THE DEPARTMENT OF
WAY TO SECURE THE BORDER.
HOMELAND SECURITY HAS OUTLINED A
AND PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO
WAY TO SECURE THE BORDER.
APPLY, PAY A FINE, GO THROUGH A
AND PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK AND
APPLY, PAY A FINE, GO THROUGH A
APPLY TO GET LEGAL STATUS.
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK AND
OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS, THE
APPLY TO GET LEGAL STATUS.
U.S. WOULD SPEND A LOT OF MONEY
OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS, THE
ON ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY AND
U.S. WOULD SPEND A LOT OF MONEY
THERE WOULD BE A REQUIREMENT
ON ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY AND
THAT A CERTAIN CERTIFICATION WAS
THERE WOULD BE A REQUIREMENT
MADE ON BORDER SECURITY.
THAT A CERTAIN CERTIFICATION WAS
AFTER THAT POINT IF THOSE
MADE ON BORDER SECURITY.
REQUIREMENTS WERE MET ON BORDER
AFTER THAT POINT IF THOSE
SECURITY AND A FEW OTHER
REQUIREMENTS WERE MET ON BORDER
FACTORS, THEN THOSE PEOPLE WHO
SECURITY AND A FEW OTHER
WERE LEGALIZED WOULD BE ELIGIBLE
FACTORS, THEN THOSE PEOPLE WHO
TO APPLY FOR GREEN CARDS AND
WERE LEGALIZED WOULD BE ELIGIBLE
EVENTUALLY BECOME CITIZENS.
TO APPLY FOR GREEN CARDS AND
>> Ifill: I WANT TO CIRCLE BACK
EVENTUALLY BECOME CITIZENS.
TO SOME OF THE POINTS YOU MADE.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO CIRCLE BACK
LET'S START BY TALKING ABOUT
TO SOME OF THE POINTS YOU MADE.
VISAS.
LET'S START BY TALKING ABOUT
THIS WHOLE QUESTION OF WORK
VISAS.
IS THAT FOR HIGH-TECH WORKERS
AND AGRICULTURAL WORKERS.
THAT'S BEEN A STICKING POINT
ALONG THE WAY.
>> THIS HAS.
ONE OF THE MAIN THINGS THAT THE
SENATORS WANTED TO TACKLE IN
THIS BILL IS HOW DO YOU MANAGE
THE FUTURE FLOW OF IMMIGRANTS SO
YOU D'T HONAVE AS MUCH PRESSURE
ON THE BORDER OF PEOPLE WANTING
TO COME OVER ILLEGALLY TO FIND
WORK.
THEY'VE CREATED A COUPLE OF WORK
VISA PROGRAMS IN THE BILL.
AND ONE IS FOR FARM WORKERS.
OVER 50% OF FARM WORKERS IN THE
UNITED STATES CAME HERE
ILLEGALLY OR OVERSTAYED THEIR
VISAS.
AND THE BILL WOULD CREATE A NEW
VISA SYSTEM THAT WOULD ALLOW HIS
FROM OVERSEAS.
ALSO FOR THE FARM WORKERS WHO
WERE ALREADY HERE, THEY HAVE, IF
THEY STAYED IN AGRICULTURE WORK
THEY'VE HAVE AN EXPEDITED PATH
TO LEGAL... TO GET A GREEN CARD.
AND THEN WHEN IT COMES TO
LOW-SKILLED WORKERS, PEOPLE LIKE
HOUSEKEEPERS, MEAT PACKERS,
JANITORS, THERE'S ANOTHER NEW
VISA PROGRAM THAT WOULD BE
ESTABLISHED AS WELL TO
ACCOMMODATE WORK SHORTAGES HERE
IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: THAT'S DIFFERENT FROM
THE HIGHLY EDUCATED WORKERS WHO
THE TECH COMPANIES HAVE BEEN
AGITATING TO ALLOW MORE OF THEM
IN THE COUNTRY, RIGHT?
>> THERE ARE PROVISIONS IN THE
BILL TO BRING IN MORE TECH
WORKERS.
IT WOULD APPROXIMATELY DOUBLE
THE NUMBER OF SLOTS THAT ARE
CURRENTLY AVAILABLE FOR
HIGH-SKILLED WORKERS TO TRY TO
SATISFY THE NEEDS OF SILICON
VALLEY AND OTHER TECH COMPANIES
THAT WANT TO HIRE MORE WORKERS
WITH ADVANCED DEGREES.
>> Ifill: LET'S GO BACK TO THE
BORDER SECURITY ISSUE.
THAT'S BEEN ONE THING THAT
EVERYBODY AGREES ABOUT, THAT
THERE OUGHT TO BE IF NOT HIGHER
FENCES AT LEAST HIGHER
ENFORCEMENT, TOUGHER ENFORCEMENT
ALONG THE BORDER.
IS THAT SOMETHING WHICH IS NOW
SETTLED?
>> IT IS ESSENTIALLY SETTLED FOR
THIS GROUP OF SENATORS.
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THEY
ROLL IT OUT TO THE OTHER 92
SENATORS IN THE SENATE.
BUT THIS GROUP OF SENATORS HAS
DECIDED THAT THEY'VE COME UP
WITH A SOLUTION FOR BORDER
SECURITY AND THAT THEY FEEL WILL
HELP SECURE THE BORDER AND
PREVENT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FROM
CROSSING IN THE COMING YEARS.
AND WHAT IT ESSENTIALLY DOES IS
INCREASES DRAMATICALLY THE
AMOUNT OF SURVEILLANCE ON THE
BORDER AND TRIES TO GET TO A
POINT WHERE BORDER SECURITY CAN
RESPOND TO PEOPLE CROSSING THE
BORDER IN A VERY QUICK WAY.
>> Ifill: ISN'T THERE SOME
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT HOW SEVERE A
PROBLEM IT REALLY IS AT THIS
POINT.
>> THERE IS.
THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION SAYS THAT THE
BORDER IS MORE SECURE THAN IT'S
BEEN IN 40 YEARS.
AND SPENDING MORE MONEY ON
BORDER SECURITY IS NOT REALLY
NECESSARY.
THEIR FOLLOW-ON POINT WOULD BE
THAT BY CREATING LEGALIZATION
PROGRAMS AND ALSO BY CREATING A
WAY FOR PEOPLE TO COME LEGALLY
INTO THE U.S. TO WORK, THAT YOU
TAKE SOME OF THE PRESSURE OFF
THE BORDER.
AND, YOU KNOW, THAT SAID,
THERE'S BEEN FRUSTRATION AMONG
PEOPLE WHO HAVE SEEN THESE
EFFORTS GO BEFORE WITHOUT REALLY
TRYING TO CLAMP DOWN ON THE
BORDER AND CREATE A LEGALIZATION
PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: BRIAN, WHAT ALSO FEELS
DIFFERENT THIS TIME IS WE HAVE
GOTTEN USED TO SEEING RALLIES
LIKE WHAT WE SAW ON CAPITOL HILL
TODAY WITH THE SAME USUAL
SUSPECTS SAYING IT'S TIME FOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM BUT IT FEELS
LIKE THIS TIME LIKE OTHER PEOPLE
ARE ON THAT BANDWAGON INCLUDING
MEMBERS OF THE LARGER FAITH
COMMUNITY.
>> THE POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT IS
A LOT DIFFERENT THAN IN 2007 THE
LAST TIME CONGRESS TOOK UP AN
EFFORT TO OVERHAUL THE NATION'S
IMMIGRATION LAWS.
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE EVANGELICAL
LEADERS WHO HAVE SIGNED ON AND
SAID, LOOK, THERE'S A RELIGIOUS
IMPERATIVE TO EMBRACE THE
STRANGER AND TO REACH OUT AND
HELP PEOPLE WHO ARE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE, YOU HAVE
WHAT THEY CALL A COALITION OF
BIBLES, BADGES AND BUSINESS.
YOU HAVE FAITH LEADERS.
YOU ALSO HAVE LAW ENFORCEMENT
LEADERS, ATTORNEY GENERAL FROM
THE STATES.
AND OTHER SHERIFFS.
AND BUSINESS LEADERS WHO ARE
SAYING, LOOK, OUR SYSTEM IS
BROKEN.
ITS TIME TO FIX THE SYSTEM.
ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE THEY'RE
GETTING PRESSURE FROM SOME OF
THESE CORE CONSTITUENTS TO COME
UP WITH A SOLUTION.
>> Ifill: IS IT FAIR TO SAY
AFTER SEEING HIS KIND OF TOUR DE
FORCE ON THE SUNDAY TALK SHOWS
YESTERDAY THAT SENATOR MARCO
RUBIO, THE FLORIDA REPUBLICAN,
IS THE FACE OF THIS?
OR ARE THERE OTHER... IS THERE
OTHER AGITATION GOING ON
ESPECIALLY OVER IN THE HOUSE?
>> MARCO RUBIO IS SEEN AS
ESSENTIAL TO PRESENTING THIS
BILL TO CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS OF
THE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS.
BECAUSE HERE'S MARCO RUBIO.
HE WAS ELECTED TO HIS SENATE
SEAT IN 2010 ON A WAVE OF TEA
PARTY SUPPORT.
AND WE'LL SEE IF HE'S SUCCESSFUL
AT TRYING TO BRING A LOT OF THE
CONSERVATIVES IN THE REPUBLICAN
CAUCUS ALONG BOARD.
THERE'S A BIG HURDLE IN THE
HOUSE GOING FORWARD.
AND THE EFFORT IN THE SENATE IS
TO TRY TO GET A BILL PASSED WITH
A LOT OF BIPARTISAN VOTES TO TRY
TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE HOUSE TO
COME UP WITH THEIR OWN BILL OR
TO TAKE UP THE SENATE VERSION.
>> Ifill: WHICH SOME MEMBERS OF
THE HOUSE ARE WORKING ON, I
GATHER?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE ARE ABOUT EIGHT MEMBERS OF
THE HOUSE, FOUR FROM EACH PARTY
THAT HAVE BEEN WORKING FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS ON DRAFTING THEIR
OWN LEGISLATION AND THAT BILL,
THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE A LOOK AT
WHAT THE SENATOR CAME UP WITH
AND THEY MAY PRESENT THEIR OWN
VERSION OF IMMIGRATION OVERHAUL
IN THE COMING WEEKS.
>> Ifill: BRIAN BENNETT OF THE
L.A. TIMES, WE KNOW YOU'LL BE
WATCHING AND WE WILL TOO.
>> HAPPY TO BE ON, THANKS.
Ifill: ONLINE WE'RE KICKING
OFF A WEEK OF CONVERSATIONS ON
THE EVOLVING IMMIGRATION DEBATE.
FIRST UP, HARI SREENIVASAN TALKS
TO SEAN MORAN OF THE NATIONAL
BORDER PATROL COUNCIL.
>> Brown: NOW TO VENEZUELA, THE
SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY VOTED ON
SUNDAY FOR A NEW PRESIDENT TO
SUCCEED THE LATE HUGO CHAVEZ.
AS RAY SUAREZ REPORTS, THE
RESULTS WERE FAR CLOSER THAN
MANY EXPECTED.
>> Suarez: THE STREETS OF
CARACAS WERE MOSTLY QUIET THIS
MORNING AS CONVENIENT WAIL ANDS
ADJUSTED TO THE IMMEDIATE CALLS
FOR A RECOUNT.
>> THE GAP WAS VERY SMALL.
ACTUALLY IT WAS... I WAS
EXPECTING IT TO BE BIGGER.
WHILE THE PEOPLE EXPRESSED THEIR
WILL AND IT WAS THE POPULAR
WILL, SO IT'S NECESSARY TO
RESPECT THE RESULTS.
>> THE DIFFERENCE IS VERY, VERY
LITTLE.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THERE WERE
MISTAKES DURING THE COUNTING.
I AGREE THEY SHOULD HAVE ASKED
FOR A RECOUNT SO WE CAN CLEAR
THE DOUBTS.
>> Suarez: THE AUTHORITY
DECLARED MADURO HAD WON BY A
WHISKER WITH JUST 50.7% OF THE
VOTE.
>> THESE ARE THE IRREVERSIBLE
RESULTS THAT THE PEOPLE OF
VENEZUELA HAVE DECIDED WITH
THEIR ELECTORAL PROCESS.
>> HE IS THE HAND PICKED
SUCCESSOR OF PRESIDENT HUGO
CHAVEZ WHO DIED OF CANCER LAST
MONTH AFTER 14 YEARS IN POWER.
UNDER CHAVEZ RELATION WITH
WASHINGTON WERE STRAINED EVEN AS
VENEZUELA BECAME AMERICA'S
FOURTH LARGEST SUPPLIER OF CRUDE
OIL.
INSTEAD CHAVEZ TRANSFORMED HIS
COUNTRY INTO A SOCIALIST ALLY OF
CUBA'S CASTRO REGIME.
LAST NIGHT WITH THE VOTE IN,
MADURO TOLD SUPPORTERS THEY HAD
DONE THE WILL OF THE LATE
LEADER.
>> LONG LIVE CHAVEZ, LONG LIVE
CHAVEZ.
UNTIL VICTORY FOREVER.
LET'S GO TO THE STREETS TO
DEFEND THIS VICTORY.
TO DEFEND THE TRIUMPH.
IN PEACE AND IN ORDER TO
CELEBRATE WITH THE PEOPLE AND TO
REMEMBER THAT WE HAVE COMPLIED
WITH THE COMMANDER.
>> Suarez: STILL OPPOSITION
CANDIDATE CAPRILES SAID THE
MARGIN OF 235,000 VOTES DEMANDS
A RECOUNT.
>> I WANT TO SAY TO THE GOLF'S
CANDIDATE, THE LOSER TODAY IS
YOU.
I SAY THAT FIRMLY.
YOU ARE THE LOSER.
YOU AND YOUR GOVERNMENT.
WE WILL NOT RECOGNIZE THE
RESULTS UNTIL EACH AND EVERY
VOTE ONE BY ONE HAS BEEN
COUNTED.
>> Suarez: MADURO SAID HE'S OPEN
TO AT THIDEA.
IN WASHINGTON, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT ALSO ENDORSED IT.
>> THE RESULTS REVEAL THE
VENEZUELAN ELECTORATE IS EVENLY
DIVIDED.
IN ORDER TO MEET ALL THE
DEMOCRATIC EXPECTATIONS IT MAKES
SENSE THAT SUCH A RECOUNT SHOULD
BE COMPLETED BEFORE ANY
ADDITIONAL STEPS, INCLUDING
OFFICIAL CERTIFICATION OF THE
RESULTS, OCCURS.
>> Suarez: MADURO CAMPAIGNED
WITH ALL THE ADVANTAGES OF
GOVERNMENT BACKING.
IT MAY SIGNAL VENEZUELANS ARE
WEARY OF CHRONIC INFLATION,
SHORTAGES OF BASIC GOODS AND
HIGH LEVELS OF VIOLENT CRIME.
FOR MORE ON THE ELECTION AND
WHAT IT
FOR MORE ON SUNDAY'S ELECTION
AND WHAT IT MEANS FOR VENEZUELA
AND THE UNITED STATES, I'M
JOINED BY CYNTHIA ARNSON,
DIRECTOR OF THE LATIN AMERICA
PROGRAM AT THE WILSON CENTER.
AND MARK WEISBROT, CO-DIRECTOR
OF THE CENTER FOR ECONOMIC AND
POLICY RESEARCH.
CINDY, LET'S START WITH YOU.
CAPRILES HAS FORMERLY REQUESTED
THE CANCELLATION OF THE OFFICIAL
EVENT TO CERTIFY THE RESULTS.
GIVEN THE STATE OF PLAY IN
VENEZUELA, IS THAT RESULT AS FAR
AS WE KNOW IT NOW LIKELY TO HOLD
UP?
>> I THINK THE RESULT IS LIKELY
TO HOLD UP BUT THE REAL QUESTION
IS UNDER WHAT PROCESS AND
WHETHER THERE WILL BE A RECOUNT
THAT WILL BE ACCEPTED BY THE
OPPOSITION AS LEGITIMATE.
ONE OF THE DIFFICULTIES IN THIS
IS THAT THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE
GOVERNMENT HAVE BEEN SO STACKED
OVER THE YEARS BY CHAVEZ'S
SUPPORTERS THAT THEIR
INDEPENDENCE IS REALLY CALLED
INTO QUESTION CERTAINLY BY THE
OPPOSITION AS WELL AS A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
THE VERY ELECTORAL COUNCIL THAT
RATIFIED THE VOTE LAST NIGHT IS
FOUR OUT OF FIVE MEMBERS, YOU
KNOW, WHO ARE CONSIDERED CHAVEZ
ISTAS, WHETHER HARD LINE OR
CHAVEZ-LIGHT, THEY ARE STILL
PEOPLE WHO ARE CLOSE TO THE
P.S.U.V.
THERE'S ONE OPPOSITION PERSON.
THE REAL QUESTION IS HOW DO YOU
AFFIRM THE LEGITIMACY IN THE
EYES OF THE VENEZUELAN PEOPLE OO